Week-1/Exercise1.1/README.md, before:

# Exercise1.1

## When a user enters an URL in the browser, how does the browser fetch the desired result ? Explain this with the below in mind and Demonstrate this by drawing a diagram for the same.
    

#### Main Funtionality of the Browser

- The main functions of web browser is to fetch or retrieve informative resources from
  World Wide Web to the client/ user on demand, translate those files received from web
  server and display those content to the user and allow the client /user to access all
  other relevant resources & information via hyperlinks.
- When the user inputs any URL (uniform resource locator) in the web browser,
  he user is navigated to that website by the browser quickly.
  Let us have a look on its processing. When user type any URL,
  for example https://msatechnosoft.in, the prefix of the URL decide how to retrieve it.
  The URL prefixes that the web browser is not able to handle directly is sent to related
  application. Like default email app is responsible to handle mailto: URL prefix.
  Following table gives an idea about some of the common URL prefixes:

  | URL Prefix | URL Interpretation                  |
  | :--------- | :---------------------------------- |
  | http:      | Hypertext transfer protocol         |
  | https:     | Secured hypertext transfer protocol |
  | ftp:       | File transfer protocol              |
  | file:      | Local file system                   |

- Web browser allow users to interact with web pages and other dynamic contents via
  hyperlinks that provides navigation facility i.e. to go to different locations by
  clicking on links that makes internet surfing easy.

![Functionality of Browser](https://www.ssl2buy.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/working-of-web-server.jpg)

---

#### High Level Components of a browser

- The user interface:  
   This component allows end-users to interact with all visual elements available on the web page. 
   The visual elements include the address bar, home button, next button, 
   and all other elements that fetch and display the web page requested by the end-user.
- The browser engine:  
   It is a core component of every web browser. The browser engine functions as an intermediary or 
   a bridge between the user interface and the rendering engine. 
   It queries and handles the rendering engine as per the inputs received from the user interface.
- The rendering engine :  
   As the name suggests, this component is responsible for rendering a specific web page requested by the user on their screen. 
   It interprets HTML and XML documents along with images that are styled or formatted using CSS, 
   and a final layout is generated, which is displayed on the user interface.
- Networking:  
   This component is responsible for managing network calls using standard protocols like HTTP or FTP. 
   It also looks after security issues associated with internet communication.
- JavaScript interpreter:  
   As the name suggests, it is responsible for parsing and executing the JavaScript code embedded in a website. 
   Once the interpreted results are generated, they are forwarded to the rendering engine for displaying on the user interface.
- UI backend:  
   This component uses the user interface methods of the underlying operating system. 
   It is mainly used for drawing basic widgets (windows and combo boxes).
- Data storage:  
   It is a persistent layer. A web browser needs to store various types of data locally, for example, cookies. 
   As a result, browsers must be compatible with data storage mechanisms such as WebSQL, IndexedDB, FileSystem, etc.

  ![Components of Browser](https://i.imgur.com/VcpjfPL.png)

---

#### Parsers (HTML, CSS, etc)
- A parser in a browser is a piece of software that is responsible for taking the code that makes up a website 
   (usually written in HTML, CSS, and JavaScript) and turning it into a format that the browser can understand and display to the user. 
- This typically involves breaking the code down into a tree-like structure and 
   then interpreting each element according to its specific rules and syntax. 
- The parser is an essential part of the rendering process in a browser, as it allows the browser to accurately and 
   efficiently display the content of a website to the user.
- There are several different types of parsers that might be used in a web browser, 
   depending on the type of code being processed. For example:
   - An HTML parser is used to analyze the structure of an HTML document, 
      and to build a representation of the document in memory that the browser can use to render the page.
   - A CSS parser is used to analyze the stylesheets associated with a web page, and to apply the styles to the page's content.
   - A JavaScript parser is used to analyze and execute the JavaScript code on a web page. 
      This allows the browser to respond to user events, such as clicks or keyboard input, and to update the page dynamically.
   In addition to these core parsers, a web browser might also use other specialized parsers for handling specific types of content, 
   such as images, videos, or audio files.
- Working of parser
   - When a user requests a web page, the browser sends a request to the web server for the desired page. 
      The server then responds by sending the HTML code for the page back to the browser.
   - The browser then uses an HTML parser to analyze the structure of the HTML code and to create a representation of the page in memory. 
      This representation, sometimes called the "DOM" (Document Object Model), is a tree-like structure that represents the hierarchical 
      relationship between the different elements on the page.
   - Once the HTML code has been parsed, the browser uses a CSS parser to analyze any associated stylesheets 
      and to apply the styles to the page's content. This determines the final layout and appearance of the page.
   - Finally, the browser uses a JavaScript parser to execute any JavaScript code on the page. 
      This allows the page to respond to user events, such as clicks or keyboard input, and to update dynamically.
   - Here is a diagram illustrating this process:
      ![Working of parser](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/First_steps/How_CSS_works/rendering.svg)
      
---

#### Rendering engine and its use

- Once a user requests a particular document, the rendering engine starts fetching the content of the requested document. 
    This is done via the networking layer. The rendering engine starts receiving the content of that specific document in 
    chunks of 8 KBs from the networking layer. After this, the basic flow of the rendering engine begins.
    ![Rendering engine basic flow](https://browserstack.wpenginepowered.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/11/Screenshot-2019-11-12-at-3.26.19-PM.png)
- Every browser has its own unique rendering engine. So naturally, every browser has its own way of interpreting web pages on a user’s screen.
- The primary job of a browser engine is to transform HTML documents and other resources of a web page into an interactive visual representation on a user's device.

---

#### Script Processors

- The script processor executes Javascript code to process an event. The processor uses a pure Go implementation of 
    ECMAScript 5.1 and has no external dependencies. This can be useful in situations where one of the other processors 
    doesn’t provide the functionality you need to filter events.
- The processor can be configured by embedding Javascript in your configuration file or by pointing the processor at external file(s).
   ```   
      processors:
        - script:
            lang: javascript
            source: >
                function process(event) {
                    event.Tag("js");
                }
   ```

---

#### Tree Construction

- The input to the tree construction stage is a sequence of tokens from the tokenization stage. 
    The tree construction stage is associated with a DOM Document object when a parser is created. 
    The "output" of this stage consists of dynamically modifying or extending that document's DOM tree.
- This specification does not define when an interactive user agent has to render the Document so that it is available to the user, 
    or when it has to begin accepting user input.
- As each token is emitted from the tokenizer, the user agent must follow the appropriate steps from the following list:
   - If there is no current node
   - If the current node is an element in the HTML namespace
   - If the current node is a MathML text integration point and the token is a start tag whose tag name is neither "mglyph" nor "malignmark"
   - If the current node is an annotation-xml element in the MathML namespace and the token is a start tag whose tag name is "svg"
   - If the current node is an HTML integration point and the token is a start tag
   - If the current node is an HTML integration point and the token is a character token
   - If the token is an end-of-file token  
      Process the token according to the rules given in the section corresponding to the current insertion mode in HTML content.
   - Otherwise  
      Process the token according to the rules given in the section for parsing tokens in foreign content.

---

#### Order of script processing

- The order in which scripts are processed by a browser can vary depending on a number of factors, 
   including the type of script being executed and the way it is included in the page.
- The order in which scripts are processed by a browser can vary depending on a number of factors, 
   including the type of script being executed and the way it is included in the page.
- Generally scripts are processed in the following order:
   - The browser loads and parses the HTML code for the page, and constructs the DOM (Document Object Model) in memory.
   - The browser loads and parses any external stylesheets that are included in the page, 
      and applies the styles to the page's content.
   - The browser loads and parses any external JavaScript files that are included in the page.
   - The browser evaluates any inline JavaScript code that is included directly in the HTML code for the page.
- In general, however, scripts are executed in the order in which they are encountered by the browser's parser. 
   This means that if multiple scripts are included in the HTML code for a page, 
      they will be executed in the order in which they appear in the code.
- For example, consider the following HTML code:
   ```
      <html>
         <head>
            <script src="script1.js"></script>
            <script src="script2.js"></script>
         </head>
         <body>
            <script src="script3.js"></script>
            <script src="script4.js"></script>
         </body>
      </html>
   ```
   In this case, the browser would first execute script1.js, then script2.js, then script3.js, and finally script4.js.
- However, it's important to note that this is a very simple example, 
   and in practice the execution order of scripts can be much more complex. 
   For example, if one of the scripts depends on the results of another script, 
   it may need to wait until the other script has finished executing before it can run. 
   Additionally, some scripts may be executed asynchronously, which means that they will run in parallel with other scripts, 
   rather than in a strict sequential order.

---

#### Layout and Painting

- The terms "layout" and "painting" refer to two different stages in the process of rendering a web page in a browser.
- The layout stage involves determining the size and position of each element on the page. 
   This is necessary in order to ensure that the page is displayed correctly, 
   with elements appearing in the correct place and with the correct dimensions.
- The painting stage involves actually drawing the elements on the page. 
   This involves filling in the content of each element (such as text or images) and applying any styles that have been specified, 
   such as colors, fonts, or backgrounds.
- Together, the layout and painting stages form the core of the rendering process in a web browser. 
   This process can be computationally intensive, and so modern browsers use a variety of techniques to optimize the performance of layout and painting, 
   such as caching, incremental rendering, and parallelization.
   
   ![Layout and Painting](https://i.stack.imgur.com/r2AIx.png)

---

Commit message:

Exercise1.1: process of rendering added

Week-1/Exercise1.1/README.md, after:

# Exercise1.1

## When a user enters an URL in the browser, how does the browser fetch the desired result ? Explain this with the below in mind and Demonstrate this by drawing a diagram for the same.
    

#### Main Funtionality of the Browser

- The main functions of web browser is to fetch or retrieve informative resources from
  World Wide Web to the client/ user on demand, translate those files received from web
  server and display those content to the user and allow the client /user to access all
  other relevant resources & information via hyperlinks.
- When the user inputs any URL (uniform resource locator) in the web browser,
  he user is navigated to that website by the browser quickly.
  Let us have a look on its processing. When user type any URL,
  for example https://msatechnosoft.in, the prefix of the URL decide how to retrieve it.
  The URL prefixes that the web browser is not able to handle directly is sent to related
  application. Like default email app is responsible to handle mailto: URL prefix.
  Following table gives an idea about some of the common URL prefixes:

  | URL Prefix | URL Interpretation                  |
  | :--------- | :---------------------------------- |
  | http:      | Hypertext transfer protocol         |
  | https:     | Secured hypertext transfer protocol |
  | ftp:       | File transfer protocol              |
  | file:      | Local file system                   |

- Web browser allow users to interact with web pages and other dynamic contents via
  hyperlinks that provides navigation facility i.e. to go to different locations by
  clicking on links that makes internet surfing easy.

![Functionality of Browser](https://www.ssl2buy.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/working-of-web-server.jpg)

---

#### High Level Components of a browser

- The user interface:  
   This component allows end-users to interact with all visual elements available on the web page. 
   The visual elements include the address bar, home button, next button, 
   and all other elements that fetch and display the web page requested by the end-user.
- The browser engine:  
   It is a core component of every web browser. The browser engine functions as an intermediary or 
   a bridge between the user interface and the rendering engine. 
   It queries and handles the rendering engine as per the inputs received from the user interface.
- The rendering engine :  
   As the name suggests, this component is responsible for rendering a specific web page requested by the user on their screen. 
   It interprets HTML and XML documents along with images that are styled or formatted using CSS, 
   and a final layout is generated, which is displayed on the user interface.
- Networking:  
   This component is responsible for managing network calls using standard protocols like HTTP or FTP. 
   It also looks after security issues associated with internet communication.
- JavaScript interpreter:  
   As the name suggests, it is responsible for parsing and executing the JavaScript code embedded in a website. 
   Once the interpreted results are generated, they are forwarded to the rendering engine for displaying on the user interface.
- UI backend:  
   This component uses the user interface methods of the underlying operating system. 
   It is mainly used for drawing basic widgets (windows and combo boxes).
- Data storage:  
   It is a persistent layer. A web browser needs to store various types of data locally, for example, cookies. 
   As a result, browsers must be compatible with data storage mechanisms such as WebSQL, IndexedDB, FileSystem, etc.

  ![Components of Browser](https://i.imgur.com/VcpjfPL.png)

---

#### Parsers (HTML, CSS, etc)
- A parser in a browser is a piece of software that is responsible for taking the code that makes up a website 
   (usually written in HTML, CSS, and JavaScript) and turning it into a format that the browser can understand and display to the user. 
- This typically involves breaking the code down into a tree-like structure and 
   then interpreting each element according to its specific rules and syntax. 
- The parser is an essential part of the rendering process in a browser, as it allows the browser to accurately and 
   efficiently display the content of a website to the user.
- There are several different types of parsers that might be used in a web browser, 
   depending on the type of code being processed. For example:
   - An HTML parser is used to analyze the structure of an HTML document, 
      and to build a representation of the document in memory that the browser can use to render the page.
   - A CSS parser is used to analyze the stylesheets associated with a web page, and to apply the styles to the page's content.
   - A JavaScript parser is used to analyze and execute the JavaScript code on a web page. 
      This allows the browser to respond to user events, such as clicks or keyboard input, and to update the page dynamically.
   In addition to these core parsers, a web browser might also use other specialized parsers for handling specific types of content, 
   such as images, videos, or audio files.
- Working of parser
   - When a user requests a web page, the browser sends a request to the web server for the desired page. 
      The server then responds by sending the HTML code for the page back to the browser.
   - The browser then uses an HTML parser to analyze the structure of the HTML code and to create a representation of the page in memory. 
      This representation, sometimes called the "DOM" (Document Object Model), is a tree-like structure that represents the hierarchical 
      relationship between the different elements on the page.
   - Once the HTML code has been parsed, the browser uses a CSS parser to analyze any associated stylesheets 
      and to apply the styles to the page's content. This determines the final layout and appearance of the page.
   - Finally, the browser uses a JavaScript parser to execute any JavaScript code on the page. 
      This allows the page to respond to user events, such as clicks or keyboard input, and to update dynamically.
   - Here is a diagram illustrating this process:
      ![Working of parser](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/First_steps/How_CSS_works/rendering.svg)
      
---

#### Rendering engine and its use

- Once a user requests a particular document, the rendering engine starts fetching the content of the requested document. 
    This is done via the networking layer. The rendering engine starts receiving the content of that specific document in 
    chunks of 8 KBs from the networking layer. After this, the basic flow of the rendering engine begins.
    ![Rendering engine basic flow](https://browserstack.wpenginepowered.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/11/Screenshot-2019-11-12-at-3.26.19-PM.png)
- Every browser has its own unique rendering engine. So naturally, every browser has its own way of interpreting web pages on a user’s screen.
- The primary job of a browser engine is to transform HTML documents and other resources of a web page into an interactive visual representation on a user's device.
- Once the browser receives these files, it begins the process of rendering the page. This process involves several steps:
   - Parsing the HTML: The browser starts by parsing the HTML file, which tells it how to structure the content on the page. 
      As it parses the HTML, the browser creates a tree-like structure called the "DOM" (Document Object Model) to represent the content of the page.
   - Applying styles with CSS: The browser then processes any linked CSS files, which specify the styling and layout of the page. 
      It applies these styles to the elements in the DOM tree to determine how they should look on the page.
   - Executing JavaScript: If the page includes any JavaScript, the browser will execute this code. 
      JavaScript can manipulate the DOM, as well as interact with the user and make requests to servers.
   - Layout and painting: After the DOM and CSS have been processed, the browser uses this information to determine the layout of the page, 
      including the size and position of each element. It then "paints" each element onto the screen, 
      starting with the background and working down to the text and other content.
   - Final rendering: Once all the elements have been painted, the browser displays the fully rendered page to the user. 
      If the page includes any dynamic content that can change over time (e.g., through user interaction or updates from the server), 
      the browser will continue to monitor and update the page as needed.
- This is a general overview of the rendering process in a browser. There are many factors that can affect the performance and speed of rendering, 
   such as the size and complexity of the page, the hardware and software capabilities of the user's device, and the efficiency of the code.

---

#### Script Processors

- The script processor executes Javascript code to process an event. The processor uses a pure Go implementation of 
    ECMAScript 5.1 and has no external dependencies. This can be useful in situations where one of the other processors 
    doesn’t provide the functionality you need to filter events.
- The processor can be configured by embedding Javascript in your configuration file or by pointing the processor at external file(s).
   ```   
      processors:
        - script:
            lang: javascript
            source: >
                function process(event) {
                    event.Tag("js");
                }
   ```

---

#### Tree Construction

- The input to the tree construction stage is a sequence of tokens from the tokenization stage. 
    The tree construction stage is associated with a DOM Document object when a parser is created. 
    The "output" of this stage consists of dynamically modifying or extending that document's DOM tree.
- This specification does not define when an interactive user agent has to render the Document so that it is available to the user, 
    or when it has to begin accepting user input.
- As each token is emitted from the tokenizer, the user agent must follow the appropriate steps from the following list:
   - If there is no current node
   - If the current node is an element in the HTML namespace
   - If the current node is a MathML text integration point and the token is a start tag whose tag name is neither "mglyph" nor "malignmark"
   - If the current node is an annotation-xml element in the MathML namespace and the token is a start tag whose tag name is "svg"
   - If the current node is an HTML integration point and the token is a start tag
   - If the current node is an HTML integration point and the token is a character token
   - If the token is an end-of-file token  
      Process the token according to the rules given in the section corresponding to the current insertion mode in HTML content.
   - Otherwise  
      Process the token according to the rules given in the section for parsing tokens in foreign content.

---

#### Order of script processing

- The order in which scripts are processed by a browser can vary depending on a number of factors, 
   including the type of script being executed and the way it is included in the page.
- The order in which scripts are processed by a browser can vary depending on a number of factors, 
   including the type of script being executed and the way it is included in the page.
- Generally scripts are processed in the following order:
   - The browser loads and parses the HTML code for the page, and constructs the DOM (Document Object Model) in memory.
   - The browser loads and parses any external stylesheets that are included in the page, 
      and applies the styles to the page's content.
   - The browser loads and parses any external JavaScript files that are included in the page.
   - The browser evaluates any inline JavaScript code that is included directly in the HTML code for the page.
- In general, however, scripts are executed in the order in which they are encountered by the browser's parser. 
   This means that if multiple scripts are included in the HTML code for a page, 
      they will be executed in the order in which they appear in the code.
- For example, consider the following HTML code:
   ```
      <html>
         <head>
            <script src="script1.js"></script>
            <script src="script2.js"></script>
         </head>
         <body>
            <script src="script3.js"></script>
            <script src="script4.js"></script>
         </body>
      </html>
   ```
   In this case, the browser would first execute script1.js, then script2.js, then script3.js, and finally script4.js.
- However, it's important to note that this is a very simple example, 
   and in practice the execution order of scripts can be much more complex. 
   For example, if one of the scripts depends on the results of another script, 
   it may need to wait until the other script has finished executing before it can run. 
   Additionally, some scripts may be executed asynchronously, which means that they will run in parallel with other scripts, 
   rather than in a strict sequential order.

---

#### Layout and Painting

- The terms "layout" and "painting" refer to two different stages in the process of rendering a web page in a browser.
- The layout stage involves determining the size and position of each element on the page. 
   This is necessary in order to ensure that the page is displayed correctly, 
   with elements appearing in the correct place and with the correct dimensions.
- The painting stage involves actually drawing the elements on the page. 
   This involves filling in the content of each element (such as text or images) and applying any styles that have been specified, 
   such as colors, fonts, or backgrounds.
- Together, the layout and painting stages form the core of the rendering process in a web browser. 
   This process can be computationally intensive, and so modern browsers use a variety of techniques to optimize the performance of layout and painting, 
   such as caching, incremental rendering, and parallelization.
   
   ![Layout and Painting](https://i.stack.imgur.com/r2AIx.png)

---
